Feature/#50 tasks definition refactor (#51)
Knotx/knotx-fragments: handler/README.md

# Fragments Handler
It is a [**Handler**](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/api#routing-handlers)
that [evaluates Fragments](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments#evaluate-fragments). It is 

> the standard [HTTP Server routing handler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/README.md#routing-handler).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a standard [HTTP Server routing handler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/README.md#routing-handler).
```

## How does it work
Fragments handler evaluates all fragments independently in a map-reduce fashion. It delegates fragment 

> processing to [Fragment Engine](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/tree/master/handler/engine).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing to the [Fragment Engine](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/tree/master/handler/engine).  
```

> The engine gets a fragment, checks if some processing is required, if yes, does some fragment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine checks if the fragment requires processing and if it does then fragment processing starts.
```

modifications. Processing logic is named `Task` and is formed as a directed graph.

> The diagram below depicts the map-reduce logic using [Marble Diagrams for Reactive Streams](https://medium.com/@jshvarts/read-marble-diagrams-like-a-pro-3d72934d3ef5):

Author: Nice idea! But not in this PR please... @Mateusz512 can you please create an issue?

> The diagram below depicts the map-reduce logic using [Marble Diagrams for Reactive Streams](https://medium.com/@jshvarts/read-marble-diagrams-like-a-pro-3d72934d3ef5):

Reviewer 2: [done](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/issues/52)

![RXfied processing diagram](core/assets/images/all_in_one_processing.png)

Let's assume that Knot.x gets HTTP requests for data coming from many different sources. Dots at the 

> `flatMap` diagram represents incoming requests. For simplicity suppose that each request maps to a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`flatMap` diagram represents incoming requests. For simplicity assume that each request maps to a 
```

> `flatMap` diagram represents incoming requests. For simplicity suppose that each request maps to a 

Author: ```
diagram represents
diagrams represent
```
Am I correct?

> `flatMap` diagram represents incoming requests. For simplicity suppose that each request maps to a 

Reviewer 2: Right, my bad :D

single fragment to process. Then each fragment is evaluated in isolation, not waiting for others. 

> A fragment defines a task describing how to fetch a required data. A task is a graph.  The `map` and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fragment defines a task (graph) describing how to fetch the required data. The `map` and 
```

> `onErrorResumeNext` diagrams represent a graph processing. When a fragment is processed, then it is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`onErrorResumeNext` diagrams represent a graph processing. When the fragment processing finishes, the modified fragment is
```

returned. Please note that an HTTP request can be mapped to many fragments, then the `collect` diagram 
represents fragments joining.

Read more about benefits [here](http://knotx.io/blog/configurable-integrations/).

## Task
Task decompose business logic into lightweight independent parts.  Those parts are graph nodes, 

> connected with transitions. Graph node can, for example, represent some REST API invocation. So a task 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connected by transitions. Graph node can, for example, represent some REST API invocation. So a task 
```

is a directed graph of nodes.
```
(A) ───> (B) ───> (C)
    └──> (D)
```

> Tasks are configured in map:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks are configured with HOCON configuration in form of a dictionary (`taskName -> definition`):
```

```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask {
    # task configuration
    # HERE
  }
}
```

> Let's see how tasks are instated. A task specifies a task provider factory options and its graph logic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see how tasks are instantiated. A task specifies its provider factory (with options) and its graph logic:
```

```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask {
    # factory options
    factory = configuration
    config {
      someKey = someValue
    }
    # graph logic
    graph {
      # GRAPH
    }
  }
}
```

> In most cases the default task provider is used, so the definition can be simplified to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases the default task provider (`configuration`) is used, so the definition can be simplified to:
```

```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask {
    # GRAPH
  }
}
```
> Note:
> Custom tasks providers can be easily added with custom [factories](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/handler/core/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/task/TaskProviderFactory.java) 

> > that register in [Task Manager](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/handler/core/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/task/TaskManager.java).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> that register in [Task Factory](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/handler/core/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/task/TaskFactory.java).
```

#### Graph

> Task logic is defined in the form of a graph. Actually, it is a tree structure. Each graph node sets 

Reviewer: Statement:
> task ... in form of a graph

is mentioned for the 5th time here. I think that's too much.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As already mentioned, the task logic is defined in the form of a directed graph. Moreover, this graph is acyclic and each of its nodes can be reached only from exactly one path (transition). These properties enables us to treat the Task as a tree structure. Each graph node sets 
```

fragment logic to perform and outgoing edges, called Transitions. Its configuration looks like:
```hocon
graph {
  # node logic options
  node { }
  # node outgoing edges
  onTransitions {
    _success { }
    _error { }
    someCustomTransition { }
  }
}
```
There are two sections:

> - `node`defines a fragment processing logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `node` defines a fragment processing logic
```

- `onTransitions` is a map that represents outgoing edges in a graph

#### Node processing
The node responsibility can be described as: 
> Graph node gets a fragment, processes it and responds with Transition. 
So a node is the function:
```
F -> (F', T)
```
where `F` is Fragment, `F'` is modified Fragment, `T` is Transition.

The node definition is abstract. It allows to define simple processing nodes but also more complex 
structures such as a list of subgraphs. Furthermore, such a definition inspires to provide custom 
node implementations.

The `node` configuration is simple:
```hocon
graph {
  node {
    factory = action
    config {
      action = book-rest-api
    }
  }
}

```
The `factory` parameter specifies a node factory name, `config` contains all options passed to 
the factory. 

Knot.x provides two node implementations:
**Action node** that represents simple steps in a graph such as integration with a data source

> **SubTasks node** that is a list of unnamed tasks (sub-tasks) that are evaluated in parallel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Subtasks node** that is a list of unnamed tasks (subtasks) that are evaluated in parallel
```

##### Action node

> Action node declares [Action](#actions) to execute by action name. Its configuration is simple:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An *action node* declares an [action](#actions) to execute by its name:
```

> Action node declares [Action](#actions) to execute by action name. Its configuration is simple:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action node declares [Action](#actions) to be executed by action identified by it's name. Its configuration is simple:
```

```hocon
graph {
  node {
    factory = action
    config {
      action = book-rest-api
    }
  }
}
```
The above example specifies the action node that delegates processing to the `book-rest-api` action.

> Knot.x allows simplifying action nodes declaration:

Reviewer 2: If we intend to keep the legacy as a shorthand, maybe it's better to introduce them first, and then explain what's lying underneath to make things easier for begginers? (the same for `tasks` above)

Author: @Mateusz512 , @Voycawojka can you provide an example in a separate PR?

Reviewer 2: [done](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/issues/53)

```hocon
action = book-rest-api
```

So the task definition is:
```hocon
tasks {
  myTask {
    action = book-rest-api
  }  
}
```
It is the `myTask` task with the action node using the `book-rest-api` action and no transitions.

A nice syntax sugar!

> ##### SubTasks node

Reviewer: All of `subTasks`, `sub-tasks` -> `subtasks` :)
```suggestion
##### Subtasks node
```

SubTasks node is a node containing a list of sub-tasks. It evaluates all of them sequentially. However, 

> all operations are non-blocking so they are executed in parallel. 

Reviewer 2: how to enable parallel execution? or is it enabled by default? It's quite confusing here

Author: Nice!

Moreover, a list of sub-tasks must fit the `F -> (F',T)` function. Each subtask has its fragment 
context, execute it's logic and update fragment payload (its own copy). Finally, when all sub-tasks are completed, 
all payloads are merged and the new Fragment is returned.

> > Note that body modifications are not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that body modifications are not allowed because of the parallel execution of subtask nodes and the final `body` form cannot be determined. However, updating the fragment's `payload` is fine since all subtask nodes have their unique namespaces.
```

> > Note that body modifications are not allowed.

Reviewer 2: what body?

A subtasks node configuration looks like:
```hocon
graph {
  node {
    factory = subTasks
    config {
      subTasks = [
        { 
          action = book-rest-api 
        },
        { 
          action = author-rest-api 
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

It follows the same simplification rules as an action node:
```hocon
subTasks = [
  { 
    action = book-rest-api 
  },
  { 
    action = author-rest-api 
  }
]
```

Please note that it is a list of subtasks, not action nodes! In the example above, the `book-rest-api`  

> and `author-rest-api` actions are executed in parallel. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and `author-rest-api` actions are executed in parallel as two independent tasks (graphs) with one node (action). 
```

See the [example section](#complex-example) for a more complex scenario. Before we see the full power of 
graphs, we need to understand how nodes are connected.

##### Transitions
A directed graph consists of nodes and edges. Edges are called transitions. Their configuration looks like:
```hocon
onTransitions {
  _success {
    # next node when _success transition
  }
  _error {
    # next node when error occurs
  }
  customTransition {
    # next node when custom transition
  }
}
```
Transition is simple text. The `_success` and `_error` transitions are the default ones. However, 
they are not mandatory!

> >If a node responds with _success transition, but the transition is not configured, then processing is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two important rules to remember:
> If a node responds with *_success* transition, but the transition is not configured, then processing is finished.
```

> >If a node responds with _error transition, but the transition is not configured, then an exception is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If a node responds with *_error* transition, but the transition is not configured, then an exception is returned.
```

Nodes can declare custom transitions. Custom transitions allow to react to non standard situations 
such as data sources timeouts, fallbacks etc.

> #### Complex example

Author: Sure, good idea!

```hocon
subTasks = [
  { 
    action = book-rest-api
    onTransitions {
      _success {
        action = score-algorithm
      }
      _error {
        action = book-from-cache
      } 
    }
  },
  { 
    action = author-rest-api 
  }
]
onTransitions {
  _error {
    action = book-and-author-fallback
  }
}
```
The above task fetches book and author details in parallel. The `book-rest-api` action node defines 
`_success` and `_error` transitions. If any subtask fail then the `book-and-author-fallback` node action 
is executed. 

## Actions
Action defines action node logic, it is the `F -> (F',T)` function. Actions integrate with external data sources, 
do some fragments modifications or fetch data. A data source response is saved in a Fragment's payload (JSON object) 
under an Action's name key and a "\_result" sub-key:
```json
{
  "book": {
    "_result": { }
  }
}
```

Actions are divided in two types:

> - `simple actions` that integrate with data sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `simple actions` that actually modify the fragment (e.g. integrate with data sources and saves the payload)
```

- `behaviours` that wrap simple actions and add some "behaviour"

### Simple Actions

#### HTTP Action

> The HTTP Action fetches JSON data from REST APIs (GET request). See more [here](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-data-bridge/tree/master/http).

Reviewer 2: Could you add some example usage of `http` action?

Reviewer: It's already there: https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-data-bridge/tree/master/http#how-to-use

Reviewer 2: Yeah, but we provide small snippets for Inline Body Action, Inline Payload Action and Payload To Body Action but not the HTTP action in this file.

  #   "first product", "second product"
  # ]
}
```
The default `alias` is action alias.

#### Payload To Body Action
Payload To Body Action copies to Fragment body specified payload key value. Its configuration looks like:
```hocon
factory = payload-to-body
config {
  key = "some payload key"
}
```
If no key specified whole payload will be copied. A key can direct nested values. For example 
for the payload:
```hocon
someKey {
  someNestedKey {
    attr1 = value1
    attr2 = value2 
  }
}
```
and key value `someKey.someNestedKey` body value will look like:
```hocon
{ 
  attr1 = value1
  attr2 = value2 
}
```

### Behaviours

#### Circuit Breaker Behaviour
It wraps a simple action with the [Circuit Breaker implementation from Vert.x](https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-circuit-breaker/java/).
Its configuration looks like:
```hocon
factory = "cb"
config {
  circuitBreakerName = product-cb-name
  circuitBreakerOptions {
    # number of failure before opening the circuit
    maxFailures = 3
    # consider a failure if the operation does not succeed in time
    timeout = 2000
    # time spent in open state before attempting to re-try
    resetTimeout = 10000
  }
}
doAction = product
```

> The `doAction` attribute specifies a wrapped simple action by its name. When `doAction` throws error 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `doAction` attribute specifies a wrapped simple action by its name. When `doAction` throws an error 
```

```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask {
    # factory options
    factory = configuration
    config {
      someKey = someValue
    }
    # graph logic
    graph {
      # GRAPH
    }
  }
}
```

In most cases the default task provider (`configuration`) is used, so the definition can be simplified to:
```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask {
    # GRAPH
  }
}
```
> Note:
> Custom tasks providers can be easily added with custom [factories](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/handler/core/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/task/TaskProviderFactory.java) 
> that register in [Task Factory](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/handler/core/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/task/TaskFactory.java).

#### Graph
As already mentioned, the task logic is defined in the form of a directed graph. Moreover, this graph is acyclic and each of its nodes can be reached only from exactly one path (transition). These properties enables us to treat the Task as a tree structure. Each graph node sets 
fragment logic to perform and outgoing edges, called Transitions. Its configuration looks like:
```hocon

> graph {

Author: Sure, however, when we define task with factory name we have:
```
factory = configuration
config { }
graph { #graph configuration here 
}
```
With your suggestion we would have:
```
factory = configuration
config { }
node { #graph configuration here 
}
onTransitions {}
```
@Skejven @Voycawojka @Mateusz512 What do you think?

> graph {

Reviewer: I think that on this level (this is a section explaining the graph) something like:
```hocon
graph {
  rootNodeDefinition
}
```
would be sufficient.
Then, we could explain, that `rootNodeDefinition` is the `node` definition (could be an action but also could be subtask) that points to the root node of the graph tree.

  # node logic options
  node { # required
  }
  # node outgoing edges
  onTransitions {
    _success { }
    _error { }
    someCustomTransition { }
  }
}
```
There are two sections:
- `node` defines a fragment processing logic
- `onTransitions` is a map that represents outgoing edges in a graph

#### Node processing
The node responsibility can be described as: 
> Graph node gets a fragment, processes it and responds with Transition. 
So a node is the function `F -> (F', T)` where `F` is the Fragment, `F'` is a modified Fragment and `T` is the Transition.

The node definition is abstract. It allows to define simple processing nodes but also more complex 
structures such as a list of subgraphs. Furthermore, such a definition inspires to provide custom 
node implementations.

The `node` configuration is simple:
```hocon

> graph {

Reviewer: Here, I'd remove `graph` level, just starting with:
```hocon
node {  
  factory = factory-name
  config {
      # factory config
  }
}
```

  node {
    factory = action
    config {
      # some unique action name
      action = book-rest-api
    }
  }
}

```
The `factory` parameter specifies a node factory name, `config` contains all options passed to 
the factory. 

Knot.x provides two node implementations:
- **Action node** that represents simple steps in a graph such as integration with a data source
- **Subtasks node** that is a list of unnamed tasks (subtasks) that are evaluated in parallel

##### Action node
An *action node* declares an [action](#actions) to execute by its name:
```hocon

> graph {

Reviewer: Now, we explain what action is, `graph` level could be skipped:

```hocon
node {
  factory = action
  config {
    action = reference-to-action
  }
}
```

```

So the task definition is:
```hocon
tasks {
  myTask {
    action = book-rest-api
  }  
}
```
It is the `myTask` task with the action node using the `book-rest-api` action and no transitions.

A nice syntax sugar!

##### Subtasks node
Subtasks node is a node containing a list of subtasks. It evaluates all of them sequentially. However, 
all the operations are non-blocking, so it doesn't wait for previous subtasks to finish. Because of that, they are effectively executed in parallel

Moreover, a list of subtasks must fit the `F -> (F',T)` function. Each subtask has its fragment 
context, execute it's logic and update the fragment's payload (its own copy). Finally, when all subtasks are completed, 
all payloads are merged and the new Fragment is returned.

> Note that [body](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/api/Fragment.java) modifications are not allowed because of the parallel execution of subtask nodes and the final `body` form cannot be determined. However, updating the fragment's `payload` is fine since all subtask nodes have their unique namespaces.

A subtasks node configuration looks like:
```hocon

> graph {

Reviewer: Also here, skip the outer `graph`.

  node {
    factory = subtasks
    config {
      subtasks = [
        { 
          action = book-rest-api 
        },
        { 
          action = author-rest-api 
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

It follows the same simplification rules as action nodes:
```hocon
subtasks = [
  { 
    action = book-rest-api 
  },
  { 
    action = author-rest-api 
  }
]
```

> Please note that it is a list of subtasks, not action nodes! In the example above, the `book-rest-api`  

Author: The example is above.
@marcinkp Can you please add some suggestion?

> Please note that it is a list of subtasks, not action nodes! In the example above, the `book-rest-api`  

Author: @marcinkp I added `onTransitions` to the first HOCON script:
```
node {
  factory = subtasks
  config {
    subtasks = [
      { 
        action = book-rest-api
        # onTransitions {}
      },
      { 
        action = author-rest-api
        # onTransitions {}
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

and `author-rest-api` actions are executed in parallel as two independent tasks (graphs) with one node (action). 

See the [example section](#complex-example) for a more complex scenario. Before we see the full power of 
graphs, we need to understand how nodes are connected.

##### Transitions
A directed graph consists of nodes and edges. Edges are called transitions. Their configuration looks like:
```hocon

> onTransitions {

Reviewer: This is ok, we focus only on transitions.

  _success {
    # next node when _success transition
  }
  _error {
    # next node when error occurs
  }
  customTransition {
    # next node when custom transition
  }
}
```
Transition is a simple text. The `_success` and `_error` transitions are the default ones. However, 
they are not mandatory!

There are two important rules to remember:
> If a node responds with *_success* transition, but the transition is not configured, then processing is finished.

> If a node responds with *_error* transition, but the transition is not configured, then an exception is returned.

Nodes can declare custom transitions. Custom transitions allow to react to non standard situations 
such as data sources timeouts, fallbacks etc.

#### Complex example
```hocon

> tasks {

Reviewer: And this is also ok, we combine all the knowledge.

modified fragment is returned. Please note that an HTTP request can be mapped to many fragments. In 
such a case the `collect` diagram represents fragments joining.

Read more about the benefits [here](http://knotx.io/blog/configurable-integrations/).

## Task
Task decompose business logic into lightweight independent parts.  Those parts are graph nodes, 
connected by transitions. Graph node can, for example, represent some REST API invocation. So a task 
is a directed graph of nodes.
```
(A) ───> (B) ───> (C)
    └──> (D)
```

Tasks are configured with HOCON configuration in form of a dictionary (`taskName -> definition`):
```hocon
tasks {
  # unique task name
  myTask { 
    # task provider options and graph logic
  }
}
```

Let's see how tasks are instantiated. A task specifies its provider factory (with options) and its 
graph logic:
```hocon
factory = factory-name
config {
  # factory options
}
graph {
  # graph logic
}
```

In most cases the default task provider (`configuration`) is used, so the definition can be 
simplified to:
```hocon
tasks {
  myTask {
    graph {
      # graph logic
    } 
  }
}
```
or even:
```hocon

> tasks {

Reviewer: Just one example of the shorter version is enough.

However, all the operations are non-blocking, so it doesn't wait for previous subtasks to finish. 
Because of that, they are effectively executed in parallel

Moreover, a list of subtasks must fit the `F -> (F',T)` function. Each subtask has its fragment 
context, execute it's logic and update the fragment's payload (its own copy). Finally, when all
subtasks are completed, all payloads are merged and the new Fragment is returned.

> Note that [body](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragments/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/fragments/api/Fragment.java) modifications are not allowed because of the parallel execution of subtask nodes and the final `body` form cannot be determined. However, updating the fragment's `payload` is fine since all subtask nodes have their unique namespaces.

A subtask node definition is:
```hocon
node {
  factory = subtasks
  config {
    subtasks = [
      { 
        # subtask rootNodeDefinition
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```
It follows the same simplification rules as action nodes:
```hocon
subtasks = [
  { 
    # subtask rootNodeDefinition
  },
  ...
]
```

> Please note that it is a list of subtasks, subgraphs, subtrees!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that `subtasks` is a list of nodes.
```

  }
  customTransition {
    # next node when custom transition
  }
}
```
Transition is a simple text. The `_success` and `_error` transitions are the default ones. However, 
they are not mandatory!

There are two important rules to remember:
> If a node responds with *_success* transition, but the transition is not configured, then 
>processing is finished.

> If a node responds with *_error* transition, but the transition is not configured, then an 
>exception is returned.

Nodes can declare custom transitions. Custom transitions allow to react to non standard situations 
such as data sources timeouts, fallbacks etc.

#### The example
The example below collects data about the book and its authors from external APIs. Book and authors 
APIs accept ISBN and respond with JSON. We can invoke those APIs in parallel.
However, the book API does not contain the score. There is a separate service that accepts secret 
token from the book API and exposes the score data with XML syntax. When no secret token is found, 
then it responds with an empty score. 

The above logic can be easily transformed into the task:
```hocon
tasks {
  book-and-author-task {
    subtasks = [

>       { # subtask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      { # 1st subtask
```

        action = book-rest-api # HTTP Action
        onTransitions {
          _success {
            action = score-api # custom action
            onTransitions {
              noScore { # custom transition
                action = score-estimation # custom action
                # _success {} - subtask finished
              }
              # _success {} - subtask finished
            }   
          }
          _error {
            action = book-from-cache # custom action
          } 
        }
      },

>       { # subtask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      { # 2nd subtask
```

        action = author-rest-api # HTTP Action
        # _success {} - subtask finished
      }
    ]
    onTransitions {
      _error {
        action = book-and-author-fallback
      }
    }
  # END subtasks
  }
}
```
The task root node is the subtasks node that declares two subtasks:
```hocon
action = book-rest-api
onTransitions {
  _success {
    action = score-api
    onTransitions {
      noScore {
        action = score-estimation
      }
    }   
  }
  _error {
    action = book-from-cache
  } 
}
```
and
```hocon
action = author-rest-api
```
Those subtasks are executed in parallel because there is no dependency between them. If any of them 

> fails then the `book-and-author-fallback` fallback action is applied. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fails then the `book-and-author-fallback` fallback action is applied.
```

We used a similar strategy for the book API invocation. In this declarative way, we can easily handle 

> timeouts and errors from APIs. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
timeouts and errors from APIs.
```
